//Todo: Need to summaries every point

1900: In November, Bhimrao joins the government high school in Satara. He got his primary education at a school in Dapoli, a small town in Ratnagiri District, in Konkan Maharashtra.

1904: Bhimrao joins the Elphinstone High School, Bombay.

1907: Matriculation from Elphinstone High School, Bombay, with 382 marks out of 750. Marriage with Rami (Ramabai), daughter of Bhiku Walangkar.This is a special moment not only for Bhimrao but also for the whole community. The community organizes a celebration. Krishnaji Arjun Keluskar, well-known Marathi author and social reformer, presents him with a copy of his new book, Life of Gautama Buddha. This probably is Ambedkar’s first “encounter” with Buddha.

1912: Graduation from Elphinstone College, affiliated to University of Bombay. His BA has papers in Persian and English. He scores 449 out of 1000 marks. While he is studying for his BA, Bhim’s father runs out of funds. Keluskar helps Bhim get a scholarship of Rs 25 rupees a month from the Maharaja of Baroda. In December, son Yeshwant is born.

1915: On June 5, Ambedkar is awarded an MA. He majors in Economics; Sociology, History, Philosophy, Anthropology and Politics were the other subjects of study. For his MA, he wrote a thesis titled “Ancient Indian Commerce”.

1916: On 9 May, he reads a paper titled “Castes in India: Their Mechanism, Genesis and Development” at Dr Alexander Goldenweiser’s anthropology seminar. It is published in Indian Antiquary, Vol XII (New York) in May 1917.
In June, he writes another MA thesis, National Dividend of India – A Historic and Analytical Study. Later that month, he goes to London, and in October, joins Gray’s Inn to study Law. He also takes admission at the London School of Economics and Political Science. He requests the Maharaja of Baroda to grant him permission to pursue his studies in London.

1917: He starts working on his thesis, but he is informed that the period of his scholarship is over.
He returns to India after spending a year in London working on the thesis for the MSc (Economics).

1920: On 31 January, with the help from Dattoba Powar, Ambedkar launches Mook Nayak (Leader of the Dumb) newspaper. 

1921: On 21 June, LSE awards Ambedkar an MSc in Economics. His thesis is titled “Provincial Decentralization of Imperial Finance in British India”.

1922: In October, he completes his thesis, “The Problem of the Rupee”, and submits to LSE. He is also called to the Bar. He was not able to take the Bar examination earlier because of his work on the thesis.

1926: Ambedkar submits evidence before the Royal Commission on Indian Currency (Hilton Young Commission)

The Governor of Bombay nominates him as a member of the Bombay Legislative Council

He leads the satyagraha in Mahad to secure the right of Untouchables to draw water from the Chavdar Tank. He ceremonially takes a drink of water from the tank, after which local caste Hindus run riot, and Brahmins take elaborate measures for the ritual purification of the tank.

1928: Dr Ambedkar becomes professor at the Government Law College, Bombay;

1929: Dr Ambedkar closes his second journal, Bahiskrit Bharat (“Excluded India”), which started in 1927, and replaces it with Janata (“The People”).

1930: In March, he leads a satyagrah at the Kalaram Temple in Nasik to secure for Untouchables the right of entry into the temple. On August 8, Dr Ambedkar presides over the Depressed Classes Congress in Nagpur, and delivers a speech favouring Dominion status.[7]

Dr Ambedkar is invited by the Viceroy to be part of the First Round Table Conference, and leaves for London in October.

1931: Ambedkar and Gandhi attend the Second Round Table Conference held from 7 September- 1 December

1932: The All India Depressed Classes Conference, held at Kamptee, near Nagpur, on 6 May, backs Dr Ambedkar’s demand for separate electorates for the Untouchables, rejecting compromises proposed by others.

1933-34: Dr Ambedkar participates in the work of the Joint Committee on Indian Legislative Reform (Also Indian Constitutional reform), examining a number of significant witnesses. He also writes a treatise on the Indian Army.[8]

1935: On May 26, Dr Ambedkar’s wife Ramabai dies after a long illness. In June, Ambedkar is appointed as principal of Government Law College, Bombay. He is also appointed the Perry professor of Jurisprudence.

On October 13, Dr Ambedkar presides over the Yeola Conversion Conference, held in Yeola, in Nashik district. He advises the Depressed Classes to abandon all agitation for temple-entry privileges; instead, he says, they should leave Hinduism entirely and embrace another religion. He vows, “I solemnly assure you that I will not die as a Hindu.”

1937 Dr Ambedkar publishes the second edition of The Annihilation of Caste, adding a concluding appendix that features a debate with Gandhi over the speech text. This work would be a bestseller, going through many editions and creating much controversy.

On 17 February, the first general election under the Government of India Act 1935 is held. Dr Ambedkar is elected member of the Bombay Legislative Assembly. Dr Ambedkar’s Independent Labour Party wins 17 seats.

On 17 March, Mahad Chavdar tank case is decided, and Depressed Classes are allowed to use public wells and tanks.

Dr Ambedkar receives a grand reception at Chalisgaon railway station.

1938: In January, Congress introduces a Bill for the amendment of the Local Boards Act in which the Untouchables are defined as Harijans, ie sons of God. Dr Ambedkar criticizes the nomenclature as in his opinion the change of name would make no real change in their condition. (He is against the use of this word in legal matters. In protest of this Bill, the Labour Party members walk out of the assembly.)

1939: On 29 January, he delivers a lecture titled Federation versus Freedom at the Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics. It is published later in the year.

In July, Dr Ambedkar addresses a meeting of the Rohidas Vidya Committee.

In October, Dr Ambedkar and Nehru meet for the first time.

In November, the Congress leaves the government. Jinnah arranges for a celebration calling it the “Day of Deliverance”, and Dr Ambedkar enthusiastically joins him. Dr Ambedkar is careful to emphasize, however, that this is an anti-Congress rather than an anti-Hindu move; if Congress interpreted it as anti-Hindu, the reason could only be, he says, that Congress was a Hindu body after all.

1940: In May, Dr Ambedkar founded the Mahar Panchayat.

In July, he meets Subash Chandra Bose in Bombay.

In December, Dr Ambedkar publishes the first edition of his Thoughts on Pakistan. [9]

1942: He founds his second political party, the All India Scheduled Castes Federation, which goes on to perform poorly in the 1946 elections. Dr Ambedkar is inducted into the Viceroy’s Executive Council as Labour Member, a position which he holds until his resignation in June 1946.

Congress launches the “Quit India” movement. Dr Ambedkar severely criticizes this move.

In December, he presents a paper on The Problems of the Untouchables in India at the conference of the Institute of Pacific Relations held in Canada.

1943: Dr Ambedkar speaks on “Ranade, Gandhi and Jinnah” at the 101st Birth Celebration of Mahadev Govind Ranade held in Gokhale Memorial Hall, Poona. It was published in book form in April, under the title Ranade, Gandhi, and Jinnah[10].

1948: In the last week of February, Ambedkar submits the Draft Constitution for public discussion and debate

On 15 April, Dr Ambedkar marries Dr Sharda Kabir (a Saraswat Brahmin) in Delhi; she adopts the name Savita. By then he is a diabetic and frequently ill, and she takes care of him.

On 20 November, the Constitution adopts Article 17 of Indian Constitution, abolishing and outlawing untouchability.

1949: In September, Dr Ambedkar meets Madhavrao Golwalkar, chief of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), in Delhi

On 26 November, the Constituent Assembly adopts the Constitution of India.

1950: On 11 January, Dr Ambedkar addresses the Siddharth College Parliament on the Hindu Code Bill.

Dr Ambedkar speaks on Buddhism on several occasions.

He founds Milind College in Aurangabad, Maharashtra. President Dr Rajendra Prasad lays the foundation stone.

His essay “Buddha and the Future of his religion” appears in the journal Maha Bodhi Vol 58, April-May.

He speaks on the merits of Buddhism at the meeting arranged on the occasion of Buddha Jayanti in Delhi.

In December, he goes to Colombo, Sri lanka, as a delegate to the World Buddhist Conference.

1951: In February, he introduces in Parliament the Hindu Code Bill that he drafted to enhance rights of women; it proves very controversial, and consideration of the Bill is postponed.

In June, his essay “The Rise and Fall of Hindu Women” is published by the Maha Bodhi journal. Calcutta.

In 9 September, Dr Ambedkar resigns from the Cabinet, embittered over the failure of Nehru and the Congress to back the Hindu Code Bill as they had earlier pledged to do. He becomes the leader of the Opposition.

On 15 April, he lays the foundation stone for the Ambedkar Bhawan in Delhi.

In July, he founds Bhartiya Buddha Jan Sangh.

In September, he compiles the Buddhist Prayer Book Buddha Upasana Palha.

1952: In January, Dr Ambedkar suffers loss in the first Lok Sabha Election of independent India. Congress’ Narayan Sadoba Kajrolkar defeats him. However, he enters the the Rajya Sabha representing Bombay.

On 1 June, he leaves for New York. Columbia University confers on him an honorary LLD, as part of its Bicentennial Special Convocation. The president of the university describes him as “one of India’s leading citizens – a great social reformer and a valiant upholder of human rights”.

On 22 December, Dr Ambedkar delivers a talk at the Bar Council, Pune, on conditions required for the successful working of Democracy.

1953: On 12 January, Osmania university confers the honorary degree of LLD on Dr Ambedkar

In April, he contests the Lok Sabha by-election from the Bhandara Constituency of Vidharba region but is again defeated by a Congress candidate.

In May, Ambedkar establishes the Siddharth College of Commerce and Economics in Bombay.

His political thinking includes analysis of the issue of linguistic states; he publishes Need for Checks and Balances (Times of India, 23 April 1953) on this question. (In 1955, he is still working on the subject, as the preface (dated 23 December 1955) to Thoughts on Linguistic States testifies.)

1954: His health gives way; he is confined to bed for two months.

While dedicating a new Buddhist Vihara near Pune, Dr Ambedkar announces that he is writing a book on Buddhism and that as soon as it is finished, he will formally convert to Buddhism. He also claims that the image of Vithoba at Pandharpur is actually an image of the Buddha, and says that he will write a thesis to prove this claim.

In May, he visits Rangoon, Burma, to attend a function to be held on the occasion of Buddha Jayanti.

In June, the Maharaja of Mysore, donates 5 acres of land for Dr Ambedkar’s Proposed Buddhist Seminary in Bangalore.

In September, he speaks on the Untouchability (Offences) Bill in the Rajya Sabha.

In October, a talk by him, My Personal Philosophy, is broadcast on All India Radio.

In December, he attends the third World Buddhist conference in Rangoon.

1955: Dr Ambedkar delivers a speech on “Why religion is necessary”

In May, He establishes the Bharatiya Baudh Mahasabha.

In December, his book Thoughts on Linguistic States is published.

1956: Dr Ambedkar completes the manuscript of The Buddha and His Dhamma.

In June, he established the Siddharth College of Law in Bombay.

From June to October, he is bedridden in his Delhi residence. His eyes are failing and he suffers from the side-effects of the drugs he is taking for his diabetes; he goes into depression.

On 14 October, his formal conversion takes place in Nagpur, a town selected for reasons he explains in his moving speech, Why Was Nagpur Chosen? Many thousands of Mahars and other Dalits accept Buddhism along with him. The place is now known as Diksha Bhoomi.

After his conversion, Janta is renamed Prabuddha Bharat

In November, he flies to Kathmandu to attend the Fourth World Buddhist Conference. Here, he delivers his speech on “Buddha and Karl Marx”.

On 2 December, he completes the manuscript of The Buddha or Karl Marx, and gives it for typing.

On the night of 5 December or the early morning of 6 December, he dies in his sleep at his residence, 26 Alipore road, New Delhi. The place is now known as Mahaparinirvan Bhoomi.

On 7 December a huge crowd joins his funeral procession in Bombay, and he is cremated with Buddhist rites on the seashore. The place is now known as Chaitya Bhoomi

1957: The Buddha and His Dhamma[11], Dr Ambedkar’s own version of a Buddhist scripture for his people, is posthumously published, by Siddharth College Publications, Bombay. His work Gandhi and Gandhism is also published this year.

1987: Philosophy of Hinduism, India and Prerequisite of Communism, Revolution and Counter Revolution in India[12] and Buddha and Karl Marx published posthumously as part of Dr Ambedkar Writings and Speeches: Vol 3

1990: Ambedkar is posthumously awarded India’s highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna